now Jehoram the son of Ahab became king
over Israel at Sumeria in the 18th year
of Jehoshaphat king of Judah and reigned
12 years and he did evil in the sight of
the Lord but not like his father and
mother for he put away the sacred pillar
of bale that his father had made
nevertheless he persisted in the sins of
Jeroboam the son of Nebat who had made
Israel sin he did not depart from them
now Misha
king of Moab was a sheep breeder and he
regularly paid the king of Israel
100,000 lambs and the wool of one
hundred thousand Rams but it happened
when a have died that the king of Moab
rebelled against the king of Israel
so King Jehoram went out of Samaria at
that time and mustered all Israel when
he went and sent to Jehoshaphat king of
Judah the king of Moab has rebelled
against me you go with me to fight
against Moab I will go up I am as you
want my people as your people my horses
as your horses which way shall we go up
by way of the wilderness of Edom so the
king of Israel went with the king of
Judah and the king of Edom and they
marched on that roundabout route seven
days and there was no water for the army
nor for the animals that followed them
and the king of Israel said alas for the
Lord has called these three Kings
together to deliver them into the hand
of Moab but Jehoshaphat said is there no
prophet of the Lord here that we may
inquire of the Lord by him so one of the
servants of the king of Israel answered
elisha the son of shaphat is here who
poured water on the hands of Elijah the
word of the Lord is with him so the king
of Israel and Jehoshaphat and the king
of Edom when
down to him then Elisha said to the king
of Israel what have I to do with you go
to the prophets of your father the
prophets of your mother
no for the Lord has called these three
kings together to deliver them into the
hand of Moab as the Lord of Hosts lives
before whom I stand surely were it not
that I regard the presence of
Jehoshaphat king of Judah I would not
look at you nor see you but now bring me
a musician then it happened when the
musician played that the hand of the
Lord came upon him thus says the Lord
make this valley full of ditches for
thus says the Lord you shall not see
wind nor shall you see rain yet that
Valley shall be filled with water so
that you your cattle and your animals
may drink and this is a simple matter in
the sight of the Lord he will also
deliver the Moabites into your hand also
you shall attack every fortified city
and every choice City and shall cut down
every good tree and stop up every spring
of water and ruin every good piece of
land with stones now it happened in the
morning when the grain offering was
offered that suddenly water came by way
of Edom and the land was filled with
water and when all the Moabites heard
that the kings had come up to fight
against them all who were able to bear
arms and older were gathered and they
stood at the border then they rose up
early in the morning and the Sun was
shining on the water and the Moabites
saw the water on the other side as red
as blood this is blood
Kings have surely struck swords and have
killed one another
now therefore more to us so when they
came to the camp of Israel Israel rose
up and attacked the Moabites so that
they fled before them and they entered
their land killing the Merlin's and they
destroyed the cities and each man threw
a stone on every good piece of land and
filled it and they stopped up all the
springs of water and cut down all the
good trees they left the stones of
Kihara sir intent however the slingers
surrounded and attacked it and when the
king of Moab saw that the battle was too
fierce for him he took with him seven
hundred men who drew swords to break
through to the king of Edom but they
could not then he took his eldest son
who would have reigned in his place and
offered him as a burnt offering upon the
wall and there was great indignation
against Israel so they departed from him
and returned to their own land